vas fishing rigs and what every bass
fisherman must know about them when most
people think of bass fishing the last
thing that comes to mind are bass
fishing rigs instead things like plastic
worms the jig and Pig crank baits and
top water fishing come to mind while all
of these things should come to mind when
you think about bass fishing bass
fishing rigs should come to mind as well
I use a pair of Corrado's as my primary
bass fishing rigs and absolutely love
them I get better performance out of
mine with all the weights out and the
drag tightened until a slight dip of the
rod tip allows the lure to pull a little
line if I loosen the drag enough that
the line automatically feeds out slowly
I will get a bird nest every once in a
while you will find two very effective
bass fishing rigs below both of which
can help any bass fisherman experience
much more fishing success the first rig
called the gang hook rig is the best way
to present live worms and other live
bait as bait when fishing for bass the
second rig called the casting bubble rig
is a way for spin fishermen to fish with
an artificial fly in a very effective
manner one of the top types of bass
fishing rigs is called the Carolina rig
the weight is placed higher up the line
away from the plastic worm the Carolina
rig can also be very effective when used
with other lures such as crank bass this
is probably the most common type of rig
used today because it will help keep
your lure from touching the bottom the
Texas rig was the first plastic bait rig
used by anglers when VAS fishing really
got started more than 25 years ago it's
a simple rig to set up and has produced
more bass catches than any other
artificial bait the Texas rig is a
staple setup for fishing both small and
large in its best with artificial bait a
Texas rig consists of a soft plastic
bait that has a bullet weight above it
with a hook threaded inside the head of
the worm and buried into the bait to
make it weedless the line is simply
threaded through the bullet weight to
allow the weight to slide freely up
down the line the Texas rig and the
Carolina rig are finished in much the
same way the Texas rig is more simple in
the Carolina rig but is no less
effective when used in the right
conditions the Carolina rig is really
just a fancy way of saying a plastic
worm tied between 12 inches and 24
inches down the line from the weight the
Carolina rig is almost as simple as the
Texas rig which of these bass fishing
rigs is right for you well the honest
answer is all of them and none of them
probably anyone who has been a fisherman
for any amount of time knows not all
fishing spots are the same and not all
the fish will bite at the same lower
there is a fine line when a hobby
becomes obsession if you are spending
more on bass fishing rigs every year
than you're on buying presents for your
loved ones birthdays and Christmas then
you should consider if you are obsessed
rather than simply enjoying going
fishing there you have all you need to
get started with some of the most common
and proven bass fishing rigs try them
out and see which one works best for you
you